***
baji quan "eight extremities fist"

explosive, short-range power and is famous for its elbow strikes

Baji quan opens the opponent's arms forcibly (qiang kai men) and mount attacks at high, mid, and low levels of the body (san pan lian ji). It is most useful in close combat, as it focuses on elbow, knee, shoulder and hip strikes. When blocking an attack or nearing an opponent, baji quan techniques emphasize striking major points of  vulnerability, namely the thorax (trunk of the body), legs and neck.

the sabre and the spear

a series of 8 short attacking methods called the "Ba Shi" (Eight Postures)

The major features of baji include elbow strikes, arm/fist punches, hip checks and strikes with the shoulder. All techniques are executed with a short power, developed through training; among Chinese martial artists, baji is known for its fast movements. Baji focuses on infighting, entering from a longer range with a distinctive charging step (zhen jiao).



***
Luohan quan ("holy Buddhist kung fu", Shaolin kung-fu)

"18 hands of Luohan"
movements are simple and straight. The methods are mostly done by the palms of the hands. Fists, hook hands, and other hand gestures and kicks are less used

Shaolin Luohan quan movements, though simple, are highly advanced and deceptive. Attack and defense are masked by Luohan Buddhist postures and come out from unlikely angles.

"108 combat methods"



***
Piguaquan ("chop-hanging fist")
also known as Piguazhang ("chop-hanging palm")

explosive, long-range power

accelerational force of the arms which are often in rotation

staff, sword



***
Baguazhang (eight trigram palm)  # do more research!

circle walking, or "turning the circle"

a pair of knives

Other, more conventional weapons are also used, such as the staff (gun), spear (qiang), crutch (guai), hook sword (gou) and the straight, double-edged sword (jian). 

also known for being able to use anything as a weapon using the principles of their art

Baguazhang contains an extremely wide variety of techniques as well as weapons, including various strikes (with palm, fist, elbow, fingers, etc.), kicks, joint locks, throws, and distinctively evasive circular footwork.

Baguazhang's evasive nature is also shown by the practice of moving behind an attacker, so that the opponent cannot harm the practitioner.

piercing palms, crashing palms



***
Chuojiao ("poking foot")

many jumps, kicks, and fast fist sequences. The fist and feet work in unison and strike continuously forward, like “falling meteorites”, never giving the opponent a moment to recover.

kicks, speed, stun



***
Eagle Claw

gripping techniques, system of joint locks, takedowns, and pressure point strikes

long range strikes and aerial jumps

"Walking Fist"
"Linking Fist."
"108 Seize Grab"



***
Praying Mantis

fighting style involves the use of whip-like/circular motions to deflect direct attacks, which it follows up with precise attacks to the opponent's vital spots. These traits have been subsumed into the Northern Praying Mantis style, under the rubric of "removing something" (blocking to create a gap) and "adding something" (rapid attack).

"praying mantis hook" (pinyin: tanglang gou): a hook made of one to three fingers directing force in a whip-like manner. The hook may be used to divert force (blocking), adhere to an opponent's limb, or attack critical spots (eyes or acupuncture points). 

speed and continuous attacks

Wrist/arm techniques in particular are emphasized, as well as knee and elbow strikes. Another prominent feature of the style is its complex footwork



***
Taiji ("supreme ultimate fist", "boundless fist", "supreme ultimate boxing" or "great extremes boxing")

breathing

internal power

health

not to directly fight or resist an incoming force, but to meet it in softness and follow its motion while remaining in physical contact until the incoming force of attack exhausts itself or can be safely redirected, meeting yang with yin

sword, saber, staff, spear



***
Changquan ("Long Fist")

external 

fully extended kicks and striking techniques, and by appearance would be considered a long-range fighting system

"the best defense is a strong offense"

a good balance of hand and foot techniques, but in particular it is renowned for its impressive acrobatic kicks

whirling, running, leaping, and acrobatics

xuanfengjiao (???; "whirlwind kick"), xuanzi (??; "butterfly jump"), cekongfan (???; "side somersault"), and tengkongfeijiao (????; "flying jump kick")

Winding Roundhouse Punch, Meteor Fist Punch, Long Uppercutting Punch, Reverse Fist Punch and the Twin Gorilla Punch

Winding or Whirling Roundhouse Kick

no blocks in Long Fist

trained their style on live trees, hardening their limbs, improving their foundation and stances; and practicing to break bones

weapons - all



***
Monkey Kung Fu

various difficult acrobatic movements such as flipping sideways in the air, front flips, back flips, back handsprings, hand stands, walking on the hands, forward lunges/dives, backward lunges, spinning on the butt, spinning on the back and many kicks and strikes

Most of the attacks are aimed at the knees, groin area, throat or eyes of the opponent and hand strikes are normally either open handed slaps or clawing with a semi-closed fist called the monkey claw.

staff

Drunken, Stone, Lost, Tall, Wooden Monkey



***
Choy Gar (Choy family fist)  # not used

swift footwork and rapid strikes

short and swift movements

The low stance and power in the techniques will in time develop an inner strength within the practitioner



***
Hung Ga | Hung Gar

Taming the Tiger trains the student in the basic techniques of Hung Ga while building endurance

bridge hand

Iron Wire builds internal power

staff

ferocious, direct and powerful punching style

Wong Fei Hung



***
White Crane

close quarters hand oriented combat, which simulates the flapping of the wings
 
equilibrium and it features open palm thrusts, knifehanded strikes and blocks, powerful kicks and the use of the crane’s beak, where the hand is bent downwards at the wrist with all of the fingers extended and closed together to form a beak. The fingers would be utilized to strike at weak spots such as the ears, eyes or use nerve-strikes, while the hard surface of the bent wrist would be utilized to strike with power using odd angles. The beak is also used as a hook to parry incoming attacks. The crane is an internal style, and it focuses on equilibrium, balance, precision and elegance

relies heavily upon evasion as a tactic



***
Tiger

strength and power, and it features the diverse Tiger’s claw, utilizing it for tearing, ripping, clawing and grasping an opponent, as well as striking with the palm of the claw. It aims for vulnerable targets such as the face and groin. It also makes use of devastating and dynamic kicks, such as the tiger’s tail kick. The tiger’s is considered an external style and it focuses on strength and power. It develops bone structure and power in the student, taught through tiger exercises and its form.



***
Leopard

represents speed and agility, and it makes use of the Leopard’s claw, basically a half-fist, created by folding each finger at the fist phalanx, using the ridge created thus as a striking surface, also using the palm of the claw as secondary weapon. The leopard attacks at narrow targets with its agility and speed, such as the throat, the ribs, the joints and nerve targets such as the brachial plexus in the neck, arm or armpit. In Ng Ga Kuen, Leopard utilizes the joint of the wrist along with the leopard claw as a blocking surface. It also employs palm thrusts to the face, powerful elbow and knee techniques, and lightning-fast low kicks. The Leopard is external and its focus is on speed and agility, and is described within Ng Ga Kuen as specializing in destructive techniques. It develops muscle structure, speed and agility.

speed and angular attack. The leopard does not overwhelm or rely on strength, as does the tiger, but instead relies on speed and outsmarting its opponent. The power of the style derives from its aggressive speed. The leopard practitioner will focus on elbows, knees, low kicks, and leopard punches. Leopard kung fu is a hit, damage and run style designed to overcome superior forces with inferior resources. Counter attacks are sudden, indirect and short, with the aim of landing a debilitating technique.

An interesting technique of the leopard is the ability to simultaneously block and strike the opponent. This is not commonly used in the harder martial arts (like the other Shaolin styles, for example). The sheer speed of the leopard is a defining characteristic of the style.



***
Snake 

evasion, endurance and deceit in combat. The snake evades the opponent and uses its sinuous movements to stay out of its range. The snake fist is simply an open, extended palm, with the palm pointing downwards and the straight fingers pointed at the enemy. Utilizing circular and sinuous movements, the snake arm is used to parry an attack. The snake targets only the most vulnerable and soft areas, particularly the eyes, the groin, the throat, some joints and nerve clusters, although it can also make use of knifehanded strikes. Snake is the other internal style within the Five Animals, and its focus is on strategic combat, flexibility, evasion and endurance. In a student, the snake style aims to develop superior endurance and chi harnessing through breathing training, along with flexibility.

sword



***
Dragon

represents intelligence, internal power and the ability to flow in combat. The Dragon, unlike the other five animals, makes ample use of the fist as a striking weapon, but it also features the Dragon Claw, formed with an open palm, but with the first phalanxes of the finger slightly bent. It is used to strike with the palm, to chop, to claw or to grasp an attacker. Dragon style emphasizes circular, explosive and long distance attacks, designed for penetrating an opponent’s defense. The Dragon, though seeking spiritual development, is neither internal nor external; rather, it is considered by practitioners of this system as the balance between the two. It also places the Five animals in equilibrium, as there are now two external styles (Tiger and Leopard), and two internal (Crane and Snake), being complemented by the balanced Dragon. Dragon style has its focus on teaching the student to flow on the attack, and seeks the development of the spirit and of the chi.

the student will strike hard, block hard and stomp into each position, with the idea of learning the proper place to be once each movement is complete. Eventually, the method of transmitting power is retained, and the physically strengthened body is able to make transitions in the proper, fluid manner. In turn, this dragon-like smoothness helps disguise the attack, making it extremely difficult for an adversary to effectively counter

On the highest level, an opponent is allowed to tire himself out, evasion becoming the Dragon's key defense. Qi control is highly developed, and the degree to which the body must be moved to redirect or avoid impact is under greater control.

Passing Bridge Three Times (basic)

Five Horses Returning to Stable (intermediate)

Plum Flower Punch (advanced)



***
Wing Chun

rarely compromises structure for more powerful attacks because this is believed to create defensive openings which may be exploited

simultaneous attack and defense 

the straight punch is the most common strike 

"chain punching"

close range

pair of swords, long pole

"sticking hands"



***
Choy Li Fut

combines the martial arts techniques from various Northern and Southern Chinese kung-fu systems; the powerful arm and hand techniques from the Shaolin animal forms from the South, combined with the extended, circular movements, twisting body, and agile footwork that characterizes Northern China's martial arts. It is considered an external style, combining soft and hard techniques, as well as incorporating a wide range of weapons as part of its curriculum. Choy Li Fut is an effective self-defense system, particularly noted for defense against multiple attackers. It contains a wide variety of techniques, including long and short range punches, kicks, sweeps and take downs, pressure point attacks, joint locks, and grappling.

"Choy Li Fut is the most effective system that I've seen for fighting more than one person. [It] is one of the most difficult styles to attack and defend against. Choy Li Fut is the only style [of kung fu] that traveled to Thailand to fight the Thai boxers and hadn't lost." –Bruce Lee



***
Xing Yi ("Form-Intention Fist", or "Shape-Will Fist")

aggressive, seemingly linear movements and explosive power that's most often applied from a short range. A practitioner of Xing Yi uses coordinated movements to generate bursts of power intended to overwhelm the opponent, simultaneously attacking and defending. Methods vary from school to school, but always include bare-handed fighting training (mostly in single movements/combinations and sometimes in forms) and the training of weapons usage with similar or identical body mechanics to that used for bare-handed fighting. The most basic notions of movement and body mechanics in the art were heavily influenced by the practice of staffs and spears.

aggressive shocking attacks and direct footwork. Most of the training and footwork are practiced on straight lines. The linear nature of the art hints at both the military origins and the influence of spear technique alluded to in its mythology. The goal of the Xing Yi exponent is to reach the opponent quickly and drive powerfully through them in a single burst. The analogy with spear fighting is useful here. This is achieved by coordinating one's body as a single unit, and the intense focusing of one's Intent (Yi ?) and coordinated power (Jin ?) utilizing tight circles (usually in a forward direction). Issuing explosive power in Xing Yi is referred to as 'Fa Jin' (??), the same term used in many other traditional Chinese Martial Arts.

Despite its hard, angular appearance, cultivating "soft" internal strength is essential to achieving power in Xing Yi Quan. Also, the advanced practitioner always contains tight spirals within his movements, so even the seemingly direct and linear ones are circular on a very small scale. Such circles and spirals also exist in other martial arts, but Xing Yi (like Southern Praying Mantis) likes to keep them smaller than others.

Efficiency and economy of movement are the qualities of a Xing Yi stylist, and its direct fighting philosophy advocates simultaneous attack and defense. There are few kicks except for extremely low foot kicks (which avoids the hazards of balance involved with higher kicks) and some mid-level kicks, and techniques are prized for their working within key principles rather than aesthetic value.

sword, spear



***
Drunken kung-fu

Hitting, grappling, locking, dodging, feinting, ground and aerial fighting and all other sophisticated methods of combat are incorporated.

agility



***
Centipede 

Wriggly and quick, this style is a nice blend of defensive and offensive posturing. The strikes are so fast that it is almost as if he has a hundred arms and legs. The weakness of this style as revealed by Yan Tieh (told by his master) is to attack both the opponent's upper and lower body in a simultaneous assault.



***
Snake (5 Deadly Venoms) / Viper

On one hand: the mouth, venomous fangs emulated in precise finger motor control, designated to aim for the target's vulnerable spots with pin-point accuracy. On the other: the stinging whip of a rattling tail. Masters of this ability can even fight extremely well while lying on their back from the floor. The weakness of this style as revealed by Yan Tieh (told by his master) is to stop the "head" and "tail" (the opponent's two arms) from combining, as neither the head nor tail can function well individually. This usually meant pinning the two limbs, at an angle, as far away from each other.



***
Scorpion

The scorpion represents a double threat! Kicks from the Scorpion style are just like the stinging tail of the namesake. When delivered by a master, a single kick can paralyse or even kill, let alone the strong pincer-style attack of the arms to contend with. The weakness in this style is not clearly revealed as Yan Tieh is cut off from his explanation but one can assume (by watching The Scorpion in his bout with Yan Tieh and The Lizard) that it would be to stay out of reach of The Scorpion's damaging kicks and make him come to you.



***
Lizard / Gecko

An emphasis on speed and gravity, the Lizard style is best known for the ability to walk on walls, and can fight with ease from such positions, even maneuver in such a way that can rebound off such sources to both dodge assaults as well as strengthen own attacks.



***
Toad

This is a primarily defensive pose. The Toad is invulnerable to just about any form of damage, including blades and puncture. They can even bend solid metal. The weakness of this style is that any master of the Toad style has a "weak spot" that when punctured, drains the user's Toad style benefits (most notably the iron skin.) Number 5's weak spot were his ears as shown in his fight with The Snake, when The Scorpion secretly struck his ears with his darts. Some thought the way to discover the weak spot in one's Toad style is to use an iron maiden. But when Number 5 was first placed in the iron maiden, he was impervious to the needles. The iron maiden's needles only penetrated the Toad after the Scorpion and Snake exploited his weak spot, the ears, with darts and a snake strike.


***
Balanced Fist

Imagined by me. Loves balance; deprives opponent of balance. Most effective at medium distance, weaker at other distances. Balance between attack and defense.