A bird does not sing because it has an answer. It sings because it has a song.
A bit of fragrance clings to the hand that gives flowers.
A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood.
A diamond with a flaw is worth more than a pebble without imperfections.
A filthy mouth will not utter decent language.
A fine line separates a fighter from a warrior. One is motivated by reason, the other by purpose.
A gem will not be polished without carving and polishing, nor a man perfected without trials.
A goal is not always meant to be reached, it often serves simply as something to aim at.
A good teacher protects his pupils from his own influence.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
A quick temper will make a fool of you soon enough.
A thousand cups of wine do not suffice when true friends meet, but half a sentence is too much when there is no meeting of minds.
A wise man can learn more from a foolish question than a fool can learn from a wise answer.
Adapt what is useful, reject what is useless, and add what is specifically your own.
All good things are difficult to achieve; and bad things are very easy to get.
All things at first appear difficult.
Always be yourself, express yourself, have faith in yourself, do not go out and look for a successful personality and duplicate it.
Anger and hate will not serve you well.
Aren't we all living a lie?
Art calls for complete mastery of techniques, developed by reflection within the soul.
As you think, so shall you become.
Be formless, shapeless, like water.
Be happy, but never satisfied.
Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still.
Be self aware, rather than a repetitious robot.
Behind an able man there are always other able men.
By three methods we may learn wisdom: first, by reflection, which is noblest; second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.
Choose the positive. You have choice, you are master of your attitude, choose the positive, the constructive. Optimism is a faith that leads to success.
Conquer the unyielding with the yielding!
Control yourself. Be patient even if you want to fight.
Deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own.
Death comes when it comes.
Deep doubts, deep wisdom; small doubts, little wisdom.
Defeat is not defeat unless accepted as a reality in your own mind.
Dig the well before you are thirsty.
Do good, reap good; do evil, reap evil.
Do not pray for an easy life, pray for the strength to endure a difficult one.
Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead.
Don't fear failure. Not failure, but low aim, is the crime. In great attempts it is glorious even to fail.
Empty your cup so that it may be filled; become devoid to gain totality.
Empty your mind, be formless. Shapeless, like water. If you put water into a cup, it becomes the cup. You put water into a bottle and it becomes the bottle. You put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot. Now, water can flow or it can crash. Be water, my friend.
Everything has beauty, but not everyone sees it.
For it is easy to criticize and break down the spirit of others, but to know yourself takes a lifetime.
Forget about winning and losing; forget about pride and pain. Let your opponent graze your skin and you smash into his flesh; let him smash into your flesh and you fracture his bones; let him fracture your bones and you take his life! Do not be concerned with escaping safely - lay your life before him!!
Habits are cobwebs at first, cables at last.
He who asks a question is a fool for five minutes. He who does not ask a question remains a fool forever.
He who takes medicine and neglects his diet wastes the skill of his doctors.
However, isn't men's money earned to be deceived by women to begin with?
I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who had practiced one kick 10,000 times.
I have displayed my sword techniques. How much is learnt depends on yourselves.
I hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I understand.
I'm not in this world to live up to your expectations and you're not in this world to live up to mine.
If I keep a green bough in my heart the singing bird will come.
If heaven made him, earth can find some use for him.
If you always put limits on everything you do, physical or anything else, it will spread into your work and into your life. 
If you are patient in one moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow.
If you don't want anyone to know, don't do it.
If you don't want to slip up tomorrow, speak the truth today.
If you love life, don't waste time, for time is what life is made up of.
If you spend too much time thinking about a thing, you'll never get it done.
If you want to learn to swim jump into the water. On dry land no frame of mind is ever going to help you.
If your button can be plucked so easily, your throat will be too.
It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.
It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.
It is easy to hate and it is difficult to love.
It is not a daily increase, but a daily decrease. Hack away at the inessentials.
It's not what you give, it's the way you give it.
Know the difference between a catastrophe and an inconvenience. To realize that it's just an inconvenience, that it is not a catastrophe, but just an unpleasantness, is part of coming into your own, part of waking up.
Knowing is not enough, we must apply. Willing is not enough, we must do.
Knowledge will give you power, but character respect.
Let nature take its course, and your tools will strike at the right moment.
Liberation from the uneasy sense of confinement. It is being wholly and quietly alive, aware and alert, ready for whatever may come.
Life is never stagnation. It is constant movement, un-rhythmic movement, as we as constant change. Things live by moving and gain strength as they go.
Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.
Life's battles don't always go to the stronger or faster man. But sooner or later the man who wins, is the man who thinks he can.
Listen to all, plucking a feather from every passing goose, but, follow no one absolutely.
Man, the living creature, the creating individual, is always more important than any established style or system.
Mistakes are always forgivable, if one has the courage to admit them.
Never impose on others what you would not choose for yourself.
Never waste energy on worries or negative thoughts, all problems are brought into existence - drop them.
Not being tense, but ready. Not thinking, but not dreaming. Not being set, but flexible. 
Nothing is so certain as the unexpected.
Notice that the stiffest tree is most easily cracked, while the bamboo or willow survives by bending with the wind.
Obey the principles without being bound by them.
One man's grief is another man's fortune.
Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.
Pierce its heart!
Real knowledge is to know the extent of one's ignorance.
Real living is living for others.
Reality is apparent when one ceases to compare. There is what is only when there is no comparison at all, and to live with what is, is to be peaceful.
Relationship is a process of self evaluation and self revelation. Relationship is the mirror in which you discover yourself – to be is to be related.
Self-knowledge involves relationship. To know oneself is to study oneself in action with another person.
Showing off is the fool's idea of glory.
Silence is a true friend who never betrays.
Simplicity is the key to brilliance.
Studying is like rowing upstream: no advance is to drop back.
Success depends upon previous preparation, and without such preparation there is sure to be failure.
Take no thought of who is right or wrong, or who is better than. Be not for or against.
Take things as they are. Punch when you have to punch. Kick when you have to kick.
Talk doesn't cook rice.
Teachers open the door. You enter by yourself.
The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their right names.
The cautious seldom err.
The doubters said, "Man cannot fly," The doers said, "Maybe, but we'll try," and finally soared in the morning glow while non-believers watched from below.
The great mistake is to anticipate the outcome of the engagement; you ought not to be thinking of whether it ends in victory or defeat. 
The key to immortality is first living a life worth remembering.
The less effort, the faster and more powerful you will be.
The meaning of life is that it is to be lived, and it is not to be traded and conceptualized and squeezed into a pattern of systems.
The more we value things, the less we value ourselves.
The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person who is doing it.
The predictable attack has a predictable outcome.
The scar that I left is your pride of this lifetime.
The spirit of the individual is determined by his dominating thought habits.
The successful warrior is the average man with laser-like focus.
The superior man acts before he speaks, and afterwards speaks according to his action.
The three most difficult things in life are: to keep a secret, to forget an injury, and to make good use of leisure.
There are no limits. There are only plateaus, and you must not stay there, you must go beyond them.
Those who are unaware they are walking in darkness will never seek the light.
Those who have free seats at a play hiss first.
Time means a lot to me because you see I am also a learner and am often lost in the joy of forever developing.
To hell with circumstances; I create opportunities.
To know what you know and what you do not know, that is true knowledge.
To spend time is to pass it in a specified manner. To waste time is to expend it thoughtlessly or carelessly. We all have time to either spend or waste and it is our decision what to do with it. But once passed, it is gone forever.
True skill is a key in the moon.
Use only that which works, and take it from any place you can find it.
Using no way as a way, having no limitation as limitation.
We should feel sorrow, but not sink under its oppression.
When you drink the water, remember the spring.
Wherever you go, go with all your heart.
You must exercise patience.